# Edge and Identity Preserving Network for Face Super-Resolution (EIPNet)

## Abstract

Face super-resolution (SR) has become an indispensable function in security so-lutions such as video surveillance and identification system, but the distortion infacial components is a great challenge in it.  Most state-of-the-art methods haveutilized facial priors with deep neural networks.  These methods require extralabels,  longer  training  time,  and  larger  computation  memory.   In  this  paper,we  propose  a  novel  Edge  and  Identity  Preserving  Network  for  Face  SR  Net-work, named as EIPNet, to minimize the distortion by utilizing a lightweightedge block and identity information.  We present an edge block to extract per-ceptual  edge  information,  and  concatenate  it  to  the  original  feature  maps  inmultiple  scales.  This  structure progressively  provides edge  information in  re-construction  to  aggregate  local  and  global  structural  information.   Moreover,we define an identity loss function to preserve identification of SR images.  Theidentity  loss  function  compares  feature  distributions  between  SR  images  andtheir ground truth to recover identities in SR images.  In addition, we providea luminance-chrominance error (LCE) to separately infer brightness and colorinformation in SR images.  The LCE method not only reduces the dependencyof color information by dividing brightness and color components but also enables  our  network  to  reflect differences  between  SR  images  and  their  groundtruth in two color spaces of RGB and YUV. The proposed method facilitatesthe proposed SR network to elaborately restore facial components and generatehigh quality 8×scaled SR images with a lightweight network structure.  Fur-thermore, our network is able to reconstruct an 128×128 SR image with 215fps on a GTX 1080Ti GPU. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our net-work qualitatively and quantitatively outperforms state-of-the-art methods ontwo challenging datasets:  CelebA and VGGFace2.
